#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter Inconsolata
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement H
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 4cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation 0bp
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Networks : General Ideas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A network is an interconnection of computers.
 The motivation stems from the fact that we need to share data digitally
 via text, images, audio and video, and often we want the sharing to be
 efficient.
 Most workplaces have a set of limited resources like printers and faxes
 which need to be run from any computer in the office.
 This can be accomplished by computer networks.
 It also happens to be quite ironical that these needs are also a consequence
 of the network revolution that happened in 1991, when the WWW was born.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Why do we study computer networks?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Typically, as a computer scientist, we encounter many kinds of networks
 around us - the Internet, LAN at our workplaces, and so many more.
 The construction of such networks, the design choices, the challenges in
 creation, the problems that arise in such networks, and the improvements
 or solutions to such problems form an interesting facet of computer networks.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As a user, one might be interested because they want security, privacy,
 better connection speeds, reliable non lossy connections and many more
 things.
 From an administrator's viewpoint, the computer terminals should have fair
 connectivity and no terminal should exploit another, so its essential that
 we understand the basics of networking.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Types of Networks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
On the basis of size of networks and the number of computer terminals present
 in a network, computer networks are divided into three categories - 
\series bold
LAN
\series default
 (local area network), 
\series bold
MAN
\series default
 (metropolitan area network) and 
\series bold
WAN
\series default
 (wide area network).
 The Internet is a kind of WAN spanning over multiple countries, via various
 media of transmission, ether as well as wireless means.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection

\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
